Improvements to the testing guide (#738)
zeppelinos/zos: packages/docs/docs/docs/testing.md

title: Testing upgradeable projects
---

When working with ZeppelinOS, you can test your contracts as you usually do. That is, you can manually deploy your logic contracts, and test them just like any other contract. However, when using ZeppelinOS, you are dealing with upgradeable contracts, which involves proxies as well as logic contracts. Of course, you could use ZeppelinOS at a lower level programmatically in your tests but this could be rather cumbersome.

Instead, you can use specifically designed ZeppelinOS tools that automatically set up your entire project in your testing environment. This allows you to replicate the same set of contracts that manage your project for each test you run.

> The `zos` package provides a `TestHelper()` function to retrieve your project structure from the `zos.json` file and deploy everything to the current test network. All the contracts that you have registered via `zos add`, plus all the contracts provided by the EVM packages you have linked, will be available. The returned project object (either a [`SimpleProject`](https://github.com/zeppelinos/zos/blob/master/packages/lib/src/project/ProxyAdminProject.js) or an [`AppProject`](https://github.com/zeppelinos/zos/blob/master/packages/lib/src/project/AppProject.js)) provides convenient methods for creating upgradeable instances of your contracts, which you can use within your tests. Lets see how this would work in a simple project.

Reviewer: Make sure to change the text of the link, not just the href

title: Testing upgradeable projects
---

> When working with ZeppelinOS, you can test your contracts as you usually do. That is, you can manually deploy your logic contracts, and test them just like any other contract. However, when using ZeppelinOS, you are dealing with upgradeable contracts, which involves proxies as well as logic contracts. Of course, you could use ZeppelinOS at a lower level programmatically in your tests but this could be rather cumbersome.

Author: I can remove it from the prose, sure, but the term proxy is all around the codebase, eg:
```
const proxy = await this.project.createProxy(Sample);
```

> When working with ZeppelinOS, you can test your contracts as you usually do. That is, you can manually deploy your logic contracts, and test them just like any other contract. However, when using ZeppelinOS, you are dealing with upgradeable contracts, which involves proxies as well as logic contracts. Of course, you could use ZeppelinOS at a lower level programmatically in your tests but this could be rather cumbersome.

Reviewer: I'm fine with the code as is, let's leave it from the prose

> When working with ZeppelinOS, you can test your contracts as you usually do. That is, you can manually deploy your logic contracts, and test them just like any other contract. However, when using ZeppelinOS, you are dealing with upgradeable contracts, which involves proxies as well as logic contracts. Of course, you could use ZeppelinOS at a lower level programmatically in your tests but this could be rather cumbersome.

Reviewer: Please include this change as well

Instead, you can use specifically designed ZeppelinOS tools that automatically set up your entire project in your testing environment. This allows you to replicate the same set of contracts that manage your project for each test you run.

> 

Author: It's not! 
:tada:

> 

Reviewer: Awesome!!

_If you don't understand what's going on in this section, please refer to the Quickstart guides of the documentation, specifically the (Deploying your first project)[https://docs.zeppelinos.org/docs/deploying.html], (Upgrading your project)[https://docs.zeppelinos.org/docs/upgrading.html] and (Linking to EVM packages)[https://docs.zeppelinos.org/docs/linking.html] guides. These guides provide detailed explanations on how a basic ZeppelinOS project works._

Create a new project by running:

```console
mkdir my-project
cd my-project
npm init --yes
npm install zos zos-lib openzeppelin-eth truffle chai
```

Now, run:

```console
npx zos init my-project
```

Lets add a simple contract to the project, create the file `contracts/Sample.sol`:

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.5.0;

contract Sample {
  function greet() public pure returns (string memory) {
    return "A sample";
  }
}
```

Now, add your contract to the ZeppelinOS project:

```console
npx zos add Sample
```

And link your ZeppelinOS project to the `openzeppelin-eth` EVM package:

```
npx zos link openzeppelin-eth
```

## Writing the test script

> To be able to use ES6 Javascript syntax in your tests, make sure you [set up babel in your project](https://docs.zeppelinos.org/docs/faq.html#how-do-i-use-es6-javascript-syntax-in-my-tests).

Reviewer: Given that we have removed the requirement to use `import`, let's rephrase this to something like "In case you want to use ES6...". We could even move it to a separate note (using `>`).

> Now, lets create the test file `test/Sample.test.js`:

Reviewer: Pending approval

const Sample = Contracts.getFromLocal('Sample');
const ERC20 = Contracts.getFromNodeModules('openzeppelin-eth', 'ERC20');
```

We then invoke `TestHelper` in the test, optionally including a set of options to be used when deploying the contracts (such as `from`, `gas`, and `gasPrice`):
```js
beforeEach(async function () {
  this.project = await TestHelper({ from: owner })
});
```

And finally, we add the tests themselves. Notice how each test first creates a proxy for each contract:

```js
const proxy = await this.project.createProxy(Sample);
```

The [createProxy](https://github.com/zeppelinos/zos/blob/master/packages/lib/src/project/BaseSimpleProject.ts#L96) method of the project accepts an additional object parameter in which you can specify an initializer function with arguments, just as you would by using the regular `zos create` command from the CLI, but due to the simplicity of this example, it's not necessary in our case.

Also, notice that the way we interact with the contracts is by using their `methods` object. This is because ZeppelinOS uses Web3 1.0 Contract interface:

```js
const result = await proxy.methods.totalSupply().call();
```

> This is how you should write tests for your ZeppelinOS projects. The project object provided by `TestHelper` wraps all of ZeppelinOS programmatic interface in a way that is very convenient to use in tests. By running tests in this way, you make sure that you are testing your contracts with the exact set of conditions that they would have in production, after you deploy them with ZeppelinOS.

Author: I disagree here. The article had no narrative before these changes, and seemed too obscure for someone that is new to the concepts it introduces.  It needs to be super clear to the user that this type of testing differs from regular testing in that it uses upgradeable instances instead of logic contracts. It's not just a matter of style that could be added by a writer, it is a technical concept that is being explained. It might be boring if you already know this stuff, but not if it's new to you. On the contrary, being too concise would bore readers because they don't understand or don't know why they are doing the tests like this anyway.

> This is how you should write tests for your ZeppelinOS projects. The project object provided by `TestHelper` wraps all of ZeppelinOS programmatic interface in a way that is very convenient to use in tests. By running tests in this way, you make sure that you are testing your contracts with the exact set of conditions that they would have in production, after you deploy them with ZeppelinOS.

Reviewer: > On the contrary, being too concise would bore readers because they don't understand or don't know why they are doing the tests like this anyway.

I don't mean to remove explanations, just to go with a more succinct style altogether. I think we agree in that the story needs to be complete, the argument is more of style - but I'm fine to disagree and ~commit~ approve :-)

> This is how you should write tests for your ZeppelinOS projects. The project object provided by `TestHelper` wraps all of ZeppelinOS programmatic interface in a way that is very convenient to use in tests. By running tests in this way, you make sure that you are testing your contracts with the exact set of conditions that they would have in production, after you deploy them with ZeppelinOS.

Reviewer 2: The detailed explanations were extremely helpful for me: I skimmed through it first and implemented. Then, whenever I encountered a problem I came back to it and found exactly the information I needed :100: 
The only thing that I thought was missing that would actually be helpful is a pointer on how to pass the initArgs (since it will always be needed for a serious project).

> The [createProxy](https://github.com/zeppelinos/zos/blob/master/packages/lib/src/project/BaseSimpleProject.ts#L96) method of the project accepts an additional object parameter in which you can specify an initializer function with arguments, just as you would by using the regular `zos create` command from the CLI

This is not entirely correct or at least a bit confusing, since the parameters here have to get passed into an array value of the initArgs object property.

> This is how you should write tests for your ZeppelinOS projects. The project object provided by `TestHelper` wraps all of ZeppelinOS programmatic interface in a way that is very convenient to use in tests. By running tests in this way, you make sure that you are testing your contracts with the exact set of conditions that they would have in production, after you deploy them with ZeppelinOS.

Reviewer: @ajsantander do you think you can add a note on the initArgs, as @acrdlph suggests?

> This is how you should write tests for your ZeppelinOS projects. The project object provided by `TestHelper` wraps all of ZeppelinOS programmatic interface in a way that is very convenient to use in tests. By running tests in this way, you make sure that you are testing your contracts with the exact set of conditions that they would have in production, after you deploy them with ZeppelinOS.

Author: @acrdlph sure! I expanded the explanation a bit on how to call the project's createProxy method with an initializer function call.

Just FYI, the article will show that you do so like this:
```js
const proxy = await this.project.createProxy(Sample, {
  initMethod: 'initialize',
  initArts: [42]
});
```

const { Contracts, ZWeb3 } = require('zos-lib');

ZWeb3.initialize(web3.currentProvider);

const Sample = Contracts.getFromLocal('Sample');
const ERC20 = Contracts.getFromNodeModules('openzeppelin-eth', 'ERC20');
```

We then invoke `TestHelper` in the test, optionally including a set of options to be used when deploying the contracts (such as `from`, `gas`, and `gasPrice`):
```js
beforeEach(async function () {
  this.project = await TestHelper()
});
```

And finally, we add the tests themselves. Notice how each test first creates a upgradeable instance for each contract:

```js
const proxy = await this.project.createProxy(Sample);
```

The [createProxy](https://github.com/zeppelinos/zos/blob/master/packages/lib/src/project/BaseSimpleProject.ts#L96) method of the project accepts an additional object parameter in which you can specify an initializer function with arguments, just as you would by using the regular `zos create` command from the CLI, but due to the simplicity of this example, it's not necessary in our case. If you would need to pass parameters though, you would do so like this:

```js
const proxy = await this.project.createProxy(Sample, {
  initMethod: 'initialize',

>   initArts: [42]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  initArgs: [42]
```

});
```

> This is of course, assuming our Sample contract had an initialize function with one `uint256` parameter, which is doesn't. The above code simply illustrates how you would create the proxy if it had an initialize function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is assuming our `Sample` contract had an `initialize` function with one `uint256` parameter, which it doesn't. The above code simply illustrates how you would create the upgradeable instance if it had an `initialize` function.
```
